# PyDotSim: Python based 3D FEM simulation tool for the quantized energy levels in semiconductor quantum dots  

PyDotSim is a Python based three-dimensional (3D) finite element method (FEM) simulation tool for the excitonic states in a semiconductor quantum dot (QD) is described. The underlying model is based on effective mass approximation for the electron and hole single-particle states and includes multi-particle refinements by the Coulomb interaction and by considering correlation effects in a
self-assembled fashion. In addition to the energy of the excitonic optical emission, also the radiative lifetime can be simulated. A graphical user interface (GUI) integrates the convenient selection of several QD shapes with varied sizes, the QD and barrier materials, uniform external electric
and magnetic fields, and the field of point charges. Simulated probability densities are directly plotted for illustration. In addition to single simulation runs, also series of simulations with varied parameters are possible. Due to the easy GUI-based access, the simulation tools is suggested for
education and for experimenters who wants to predict or evaluate their experimental findings. 

A publication with details of the model and examples is in preparation, There, for a demonstration of the model, simulation results are compared to experimental data obtained using micro-photoluminescence from single GaAs cone-shell QDs (CSQDs). These CSQDs have a unique shape which allows a wide tunability of the charge carrier probability densities by external
electric and magnetic fields. Studied points include the dependence of the exciton energy and the exciton-biexciton splitting on the QD size, a significant Stark-shift and the transformation of the hole probability density from a dot into a quantum ring in a vertical electric field Fz, a novel strong-weak
confinement regime and its influence on the radiative lifetime, the broadening of the exciton peak and a possible origin for blinking induced by point charges, the possibility to store photoexcited charge carriers in a combined electric and magnetic field, and optical Aharonov-Bohm oscillations.
